All facts about maven 
Maven-Build management and project management tool  for java framework.
-Central repository to get dependency
-Maintaining common structure across organisation.
-Flexibility in integration with CI tools.
-Plugins for test execution framework.

Artifact-It is a file usually a jar that gets deployed to a maven repository.(project name in eclipse)
Group-Id-It will identify the project uniquely across all projects.(package in eclipse)
artifact id it is a sub project of a project
Artifact id- will be project name in eclipse after maven project get created

Command to create a maven project with default project structure
mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=qaAcademy -DartifactId=MavenJava -DarchetypeArtifactIs=maven-archetype-quickstart -DinteractiveMode=false

-D-Stands for parameter

importing the project into eclipse in the pom folder structure to create .project and .classpath file
mvn eclips:eclipse
after that import the project in the eclipse workspace

The jars are stored in .m2 folder under repository from maven 

Pom.Xml-Project object model
Surefire plugin to execute the maven test cases.By default it is not present in the POM file of maven project user have to download it from the maven central repository.

The Surefire Plugin is used during the test phase of the build lifecycle to execute the unit tests of an application. It generates reports in two different file formats:

Plain text files (*.txt)
XML files (*.xml)
By default, these files are generated in ${basedir}/target/surefire-reports/TEST-*.xml.

The schema for the Surefire XML reports is available at Surefire XML Report Schema.

Parent POM and POM file are important in maven project

Surefire plugin link -https://maven.apache.org/surefire/maven-surefire-plugin/usage.html under the usage header dependency for surefire plugin

mvn clean-cleans the projects and delete all the previous references.
Commmands should be executed from the project level directory.

mvn compile-Checking the syntax of the code in maven is  present for the project built in feature.
mvn test 
Test Keyword at the end of each java file of maven project so that it can recognize it

Commands to be run inside command prompt:
change drive d: press enter
cd d:\folderName press enter
